Let us see how to install X code on Mac OS X operating system.
See Google AppStore an insight App Store.
Search for X cool already I have X called installed on this machine.
See here's X gold option is available for updating it so if I have to update I can update it.
If it is not installed then this button will be for installation of X code so you can take on this one
and install X called on your machine and the other method of installing X quarters to determine on a
command line see X called Select
install.
See here the message I'm getting is command line tools are already installed.
You software update to install updates so already X code is unreliable.
If it is not available then it will install it once it is installed you can start using it scored.
So first of all I will show you how to create a new project for C language.
Then later I will show you how to create a project for C++.
The method is similar just we have to select the language at the time of creating a project.
So let us create a new project for click on the file mental and see new and inside that new option.
There is an option available called Project so say a new project and here it opens and it will ask which
type of project you want.
So here we are.
I didn't come online application so select come on line but then it will ask for the project names who
again mentioned any project name like I will say first project is my first I will call it as my first
then I will select the language as C language.
Here you can see in the dropdown there are more than 1 languages available so we can select C as the
last C++ also.
So I'll be using the same idea for writing the programs using C language as well as C++.
So let us select C language and see next.
Now here it allows the destination folder where you have to create a project so you can select any folder
where you want your projects to be stored.
So C create no new project is created.
So these are the general properties of the projects on the left hand side.
But here is the project browser that is File Explorer so you can click on the file that is may not see
ya.
Here is the ready made source code given for writing the basic program and also comments are data.
So if you don't want you can remove these comments and inside the main function also some time inside
that I remove them.
Yeah.
Here is a perfect C language main function.
Now by default some things are done here.
That is print Hello World.
So if I run the program which will print Hello World so let us run the program and see and here's the
output window.
Hell a wall is displayed and later on the program ends with exit code 0 so the program has terminated
no on these left hand side right hand side we have the bar.
So if you want to remove the bots you can go on the right top corner of the screen and you can hide
these panels so you can hide these panels and even you can hide this output but again you can open it
up you can pop it up or you can hide it.
So this all this all we can start our new project and we can develop the project no let us go through
this no let us go to the project panel not inside this if you want to add a new finds like if you have
to include any header files you can include them here you can just say right click and a pop up you
can see a new file and you can select the file type that you want to include in this project so sometime
we may be using header files so we can pop up this header file and the benefit of using x scored is
that we can easily debug the program and see it's working line by line so I can add a breakpoint here
so there's a break and if I run the program it will come down to this line and stop.
So up to here it will run and it will stop
yeah.
Here it is a debug area you can see the contents of the variables that are used inside the function
or inside the program.
So it's easy for me to explain the working of a program.
So far my explanation.
I I'm using x code.
You can use any ideas for developing your applications.
So throw this course.
I'll be using x code.
The reason I have told you so I can explain you the things more clearly.
That's it.
Next I will show you how to create a C++ project great new school project
and let it be.
Come on line tool.
Next on here select the language as a C++.
There are other languages salts available so I'll give the project name as my first.
I was asking for the destination that this project should be stored so select the destination folder.
Now the project is created and this is the program he here already hello world program was created so
you can remove the comments and here you can start writing your code.
So let us run this one and check
here in this window.
The output is displayed.
So if you want you can remove this panels
and hear the output as you can extend or the size of this one.
So this the watch window where you can see the contents of the variables.
If you have any variables in your program and this is the output window so you can show and hide this
output window from this toolbar that's it.